# justALittleGame
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/GP_6mMiB_V0>
#### Description: video game in Lua via LOVE2D framework

##### Introduction: For my final project I ve decided to create a little game in Lua via LOVE2D framework. I had to taught myself how to write in Lua langugage. I did it so by great step by step tutorial on Sheepolution "How to Love". I have went through all the chapters and practice everything that was there. In the final chpater "Platformer" I have created simple platformer game demo... simple but with all the important mechanics like collision detection/resolution, gravity, anamations, clases and so on. So this final chapter was stepping stone into my own game...
##### deciding on basic concept: I was deciding on basic parameters of my game for long time, I wasnt sure if i want a game from top-down perspective something in style of io.games or little more chalanging thing - platformer. I ve decided for later... because I though it will bring out more feauters and possibilities than top-down game. So many things "work" in a game: u can run as u wish, jump, gravity pulls u down, u stay on platform (if u dont actually fall of it), u can jump over obsticles or enemy, u can pick up objects. There is quite neat visiual look to a game (I have dowloaded free tile set and texture for characters, objects and also background... all in cyberpunk style)
##### development phase: so as I mentioned I have started building my game on top of the code from final chapter "How to Love". I have added another types of objects like card, chest. I have also added another "player" like entity Enemy. I had to modifie few things in all the files eg. in player.lu i have added shake animation, animation of a player itself (i have also animated few objects in a game and enemy). In main.lua i had to make a function for having a tilemap outside of sourcecode in .csv file which in turn I cun simply open in Excel and modify comfortably all the data here. I have added counter for situations when I wanted to draw on frames some text for some time. I have added audio, basic gamestates, rolling layered background etc.
##### obsticles: I have found pretty difficult to change much in resolve collision logic. I wanted to use checkcollision function not only to have it generally resolve collision but also for specific cases when eg. player and card collide, card should be destroyed etc. but I could not make that happen even with many hours of typing with chatGPT4. he always tried something but made it even more complex and it never worked and sometime broke so far functioning code in a way that thing started to diseapear in a game. For some reason there was always initial collision reported with a player in first frame even though all the objects should have benn very far in x,y from themselfs. So I made i workaround. I made with help of tutotial function that was counting the distance betwen particular object and player and when the distance got too low eg. 30 px, than that was trggier point via if statemets to make object diseapear or player to "kill" (have him 0 health... which was condition for end game state). Most of the time I think I have spent on animations and unsuccesfully trying to modife resolve collision function. Other than that thigs were easy... just maybe deciding on scope of the game was also a chalange, It took some time when i definitely decided how level will look like, how big it is gonna be and what feauters are gonna be in a game.

